 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RULES 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Welcome to Here to Slay! 
 
In this game, you’ll assemble a full Party of Heroes to slay dangerous Monsters while working to avoid the sabotage 
of your friends enemies. The game also includes Items you can equip to your Heroes, 1V1 Challenge cards, and roll 
Modifiers to tip the odds in your favor. 
 
The first player to SLAY three Monsters, or assemble a full Party with six different classes, wins the game!  
 
A typical game of Here to Slay takes approximately 30-60 minutes to complete.   
 
 
 
WHAT’S IN THE BOX   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
115 6 Oversized 15 Oversized 6 Rules 2  
Standard Cards Party Leader cards Monster cards reference cards Six-sided dice   
 
 
 
HOW TO START 
 
Inside this box, you’ll find the following components: 
 
• 115 Standard cards  
• 6 Oversized Party Leader cards  
• 15 Oversized Monster cards  
• 6 Rules reference cards  
• 2 Six-sided dice 
 
Start by having each player choose a Party Leader character to represent them throughout the game. Place your in 
Party Leader card in your Party, which is the play area in front of you. You may roll to determine who gets to choose 
their Party Leader card first (or just make it a lawless free-for-all, because that’s always fun). 
 
Each player may also take a rules reference card to quickly reference the rules. Place any remaining Party Leader 
cards and rules reference cards back in the box; they will not be used for the remainder of the game.  
 
Next, separate the different types of cards in the box. Shuffle the standard cards together, then deal 5 cards to each player. 
Place the remaining stack of cards face down in the center of the table to form the main deck. Leave space next to the deck f or 
a discard pile, which is where you will place cards that are sacrificed, destroyed, and discarded throughout the game. 
 
Shuffle the Monster cards and flip the top 3 Monster cards face up in the center of the table. Place the remaining 
Monster cards face down to form the Monster deck.   
 
PLAYER 3   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
PLAYER 2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
 
  
 
MONSTERS  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISC
ARD 
 
DRA
W 
MONSTER DRAW PILE 
P
I
L
E
S
T
A
N
D
A
R
D 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
PLAYER 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   HEROES   
 
 
 
 
PARTY LEADER 
 
  
 
  
 
MONSTERS 
    
       
PLAYER 1   
 
Now you’re ready to play Here to Slay! Whoever picked their Party Leader card last gets to go first, and play proceeds clockwise.   
 
 
 
HOW TO PLAY 
 
Players take turns by going clockwise around the table. You get three action points to spend on your turn, and you can 
use them to perform the actions below in any order. You can perform the same action more than once on your turn if 
you still have enough action points to do so. 
 
The following actions cost one action point: 
 
• DRAW a card from the deck.  
• Play a Hero, Item, or Magic card from your hand.  
• Roll two dice to use the effect of a Hero card in your Party. You cannot roll to use the same Hero card ’s effect 
more than once in a single turn, even if you roll unsuccessfully the first time.  
 
The following actions cost two action points: 
 
• ATTACK a Monster card. 
 
The following actions cost three action points: 
 
• DISCARD every card in your hand (if you have any) and DRAW 5 new cards. 
 
If a card’s effect tells you to perform an action immediately, this means you do not have to spend an additional action 
point in order to take that action. 
 
Your turn ends when either you have no action points left or you choose not to take any additional actions.    
 
 
 
THE CLASS SYMBOLS 
 
Each Hero and Party Leader card has a class. In this game, you’ll find six classes, and each class is represented by a colored symbol.  
A gray symbol is used in the game to denote a Hero card of any class:    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fighter Guardian Ranger Thief Wizard Bard Any Hero 
 
 
These classes are important because you can win the game by assembling a full Party that includes six different classes. Some 
Monster cards also require you to have a Hero or Party Leader card of a certain class in your Party in order to ATTACK them.   
 
 
 
 
THE TYPES OF CARDS   
The main deck, which is made up of all the standard-sized cards with cream-colored backs, contains five 
different types of cards: Hero, Item, Magic, Modifier, and Challenge cards. 
 
HERO CARDS: Your Heroes are brave adventurers, and each Hero card has a c lass and an effect. You 
may only play Hero cards from your hand during your turn, and playing a Hero card costs one action point. 
Each Hero card’s effect has a roll requirement. In order to use a Hero card ’s effect, you must roll two dice 
and score equal to or higher than that effect’s roll requirement.   
When you play a Hero card from your hand into your Party, you may immediately roll two dice to use its 
effect. Once that Hero card is in your Party, you may use an action point to attempt to use its effec t 
once per turn. If you unsuccessfully roll, you do not get the action point back.  
 
There is no limit to the number of Hero cards you can have in your Party. 
 
ITEM CARDS: Item cards are enchanted weapons and objects that can be equipped to a Hero card. You may only 
play Item cards from your hand during your turn, and playing an Item card costs one action point. Most Item cards 
bestow positive benefits, such as bonuses to rolls or protections for the equipped Hero card; however, some Item 
cards, called Cursed Item cards, provide negative effects and can be equipped to enemy Hero cards to give them 
disadvantages. Cursed Item cards are still considered Item cards for the purposes of card effects.   
When you play an Item card, you must immediately equip it to a Hero card. To equip an Item card, select a 
Hero card and slide that Item card underneath with the card text of the Item card still showing.  
 
Item cards can only be equipped to Hero cards (and not to Party Leader cards). Only one Item card can be 
equipped to a Hero card at a time, and you cannot replace an Item card with another. If a Hero card with an 
equipped Item card is destroyed, stolen, or returned to your hand, that Item card also moves with the Hero card.  
 
MAGIC CARDS: Magic cards are powerful spells with a one-time effect. You may only play Magic cards 
from your hand during your turn, and playing a Magic card costs one action point. If you play a Magic card, 
move it to the discard pile immediately after using its effect. 
 
MODIFIER CARDS: Modifier cards can be used to tip the odds in your favor. You can play a Modifier card 
instantly from your hand when any player rolls the dice (including you) to modify the roll by the amount 
stated on the Modifier card. If you play a Modifier card, move it to the discard pile immediately after using its 
effect. Playing a Modifier card does not cost any action points.   
Some Modifier cards give you two options (ex. +1 or -3). When playing a Modifier card with two options, 
simply declare the option you wish to use on the current roll. 
 
When deciding whether or not to modify another player’s roll, you may wait until that player chooses their 
targets (if applicable) before deciding whether or not to use your Modifier card.  
 
When modifying a Challenge roll, you may wait until both players have rolled before deciding whether or 
not to use your Modifier card. 
 
You may play multiple Modifier cards on the same roll, and multiple players may also play Modifier cards on 
the same roll. Once all players have completed playing their Modifier cards, combine the total change from 
all the modifier cards and adjust the roll total accordingly. 
 
CHALLENGE CARDS: Challenge cards can be used to try to stop another player in their tracks. You may play 
a Challenge card immediately on another player’s turn when that player attempts to play a Hero, Item, or Magic 
card from their hand to initiate a CHALLENGE. Playing a Challenge card does not cost any action points.   
When you CHALLENGE another player, each of you must roll two dice. If your roll is equal to or higher than the other  
player’s roll, that player must immediately move the card they attempted to play to the discard pile (and that player  
does not get back an action point). If that player’s roll is higher, they may proceed with playing their card as planned. 
 
Each card can only be challenged once; that means if another player has already challenged the card 
being played, you may not play a second Challenge card to initiate a second challenge.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
THE PARTY LEADER CARDS 
 
Party Leader cards are oversized cards with cream -colored backs, and each Party Leader 
card has a class as well as a skill that gives you a unique advantage throughout the game.   
Party Leader cards are not considered Hero cards. Unlike Hero card effects, which 
can only be used once per turn, your Party Leader card’s skill can be used each time 
the conditions for that skill are met. 
 
For example, a Party Leader card might state the following: 
 
Each time you play a Magic card, DRAW a card. 
 
This skill can be used every time you play a Magic card, even if you play multiple 
Magic cards in the same turn. If you don’t use the skill at the time the condition is 
met, however, you cannot go back later and do it, so don’t forget! 
 
Your Party Leader card is permanently in your Party and cannot be sacrificed, 
destroyed, stolen, or returned to your hand. 
 
NOTE: You may not use 
  as your Party Leader card in 2-player games.   
 
 
 
 
THE MONSTER CARDS 
 
If you successfully SLAY three Monsters, you win the game, but attacking a 
Monster may come at a price.   
Monster cards are oversized cards with navy blue backs, and in order to ATTACK a 
Monster card, you must first meet the Party requirements listed on that Monster card. 
Some Monster cards require you to have a certain number of Hero cards in your 
Party, while others may require you to have a certain class represented in your Party 
in order to ATTACK that Monster card.   
For example, if a Party requirement to ATTACK a Monster card is 
  , you must 
have a Wizard in your Party (either a Hero card or the Wizard Party Leader card) in 
addition to a Hero card of any class. Note that a Wizard Hero card can fulfill either 
  
or 
  requirements, but it cannot fulfill both.   
Some Monster cards also require multiple Hero cards in your Party. For example, if a Monster 
card requires you to have at least three Hero cards of any class in your Party in order to  
ATTACK it, you will see 
  on that Monster card. Please note that your Party Leader card 
is not considered a Hero card and does not count towards this Party requirement. 
 
You can only ATTACK Monster cards that are face up in the center of the table. Attacking a Monster card costs two action points. 
 
Each Monster card also has a roll requirement. In order to SLAY that Monster card, you must roll two dice and score 
equal to or higher than that Monster card’s roll requirement. But be warned: Each Monster card has a roll range in which 
they’ll fight back, and if you score within that range, you’ll have to pay the price. 
 
For example, a Monster card might state the following: 
 
5-: SACRIFICE a Hero card  
8+: SLAY this Monster card 
 
In this example, if you roll an 8 or higher (including Modifier cards), you successfully SLAY the Monster card. If you roll 
a 5 or lower (including Modifier cards), you must instead SACRIFICE a Hero card, and the Monster card remains 
unscathed. If you roll a 6 or 7 (including Modifier cards), nothing happens, but you do not get your action points back.  
 
Each time you successfully SLAY a Monster card, your Party gains a n ew skill (listed at the bottom of the Monster card) for the 
rest of the game. Add the slain Monster card to your Party next to your Party Leader card. Monster card skills work just like  the 
skill of your Party Leader card. Monster cards in your Party cannot be stolen, destroyed, attacked, or returned to your hand. 
 
Each time you successfully SLAY a Monster card, turn another Monster card from the Monster deck face up in the center of the table.   
 
 
 
 
IMPORTANT TERMS 
 
Here is a list of defined terms you will see in the game. 
 
SETUP TERMS 
 
PARTY: The area in front of you in which you play Hero and Item cards. 
 
DECK: The stack of standard-sized cards with cream-colored backs from which players DRAW during the game. 
 
DISCARD PILE: The face-up stack of cards that have been sacrificed, destroyed, and discarded throughout the game.  
 
MONSTER DECK: The stack of oversized cards with navy blue backs from which a new Monster card gets flipped face -
up each time a player SLAYS a Monster card. 
 
GAMEPLAY TERMS 
 
DRAW: Take the top card from the deck and add it to your hand. 
 
DISCARD: Move a card from your hand to the discard pile. 
 
DESTROY: Move a card from another player’s Party to the discard pile. 
 
SACRIFICE: Move a card from your own Party to the discard pile. 
 
STEAL: Move a card from another player’s Party to your own Party. 
 
CHALLENGE: Attempt to stop another player from playing a Hero, Item, or Magic card. You and that player must two roll 
the dice. If your roll is equal to or higher than the other player’s roll, the card being challenged is moved to the discard 
pile. If that player’s roll is higher, they can proceed with playing their Hero, Item, or Magic card.  
 
ATTACK: Roll to SLAY a Monster card. 
 
SLAY: Add a Monster card that you successfully attacked to your Party.   
 
 
 
 
HOW TO WIN 
 
There are two ways to win the game:  
• Option 1: SLAY three Monster cards.  
• Option 2: End your turn with a complete Party, meaning that your Party (including your Party Leader card) 
represents six different classes. 
 
Congratulations, you can officially brag that you are the best adventurer and monster slayer in the entire world! But 
don’t get too smug, because your champion status resets the next time you shuffle the deck.  